1. Analog and Digital Signals  1–4
Definitions • Difference between analog and digital signals • Advantage 
of Digital signal over analog signal.
2. Number Systems  5–18
Definitions • Radix representation of numbers • Conversion of one 
number system to the other (Decimal, Binary, Octal and Hexadecimal) 
•  Fixed point representation • Floating point representation.
3. Logic Gates  19–34
Definitions • Basic Gates-NOT, OR, AND • Universal gates-NOR, 
NAND •  X-OR gate • AND-OR-Invert gates • De-Morgan’s laws  
• Logic circuit for Boolean Expression and vice-versa • Positive logic and 
negative logic.
4.	 Combinational 	Logic	Circuits	and	Simplification	 35–54
Boolean laws and theorems • Consensus theorem •  Karnaugh Map 
• Don’t care condition • Minterm and Maxterm •  Simplification using 
Boolean laws and theorems •  Simplification using Karnaugh map for 3, 
4 and 5 variables—SOP and POS • Simplification using tabular method 
• Simplification using Consensus theorem • Hazard and Hazard cover.
5. Binary Arithmetic 55–74
Binary addition, subtraction, multiplication, division • I’s complement 
and 2’s complement • Half Adder • Full Adder • Half Subtractor • Full 
Subtractor • Adder-Subtractor.Detailed Contentsviii Digital Electronics
6. Codes and Parity 75–90
Weighted code-BCD code • Non weighted codes-Excess 3 code, Gray 
code • Alpha numeric codes-ASCII, EBCDIC • Error detecting codes-Odd parity, Even parity (Single and Double Error) • Error correcting or Hamming code • Checksum code • CRC code.
7. Multiplexer, Demultiplexer, Encoder, Decoder  91–120
Definitions • Multiplexers •  Demultiplexers •  Implementation of logic 
function using multiplexer • Decoder, BCD to decimal decoder • Seven 
segment indicator • Encoder, decimal to BCD encoder.
8. Different Types of Displays 121–128
LED •  LCD • Advantage and disadvantage • Difference between LED 
ad LCD •  Alpha numeric display-discrete method, bar-matrix method and 
dot-matrix method.
9. Digital Logic Families  129–152
Bipolar Logic Family • Saturated-RTL, IIL, DTL, HTL and TTL •  Non-
Saturated Schottky TTL, ECL • Unipolar logic family-PMOS, NMOS and CMOS • SSI, MS LSI, VLSI • Characteristics of digital ICs.
10. Flip Flops  153–174
Definitions • RS Flip Flop • D Flip Flop • JK Flip Flop • T Flip Flop • Conversion of one Flip Flop to other •  Finite state machine •  Moore and 
Mealy model • State graph and state tables.
11. Shift Registers  175–190
Definitions • Type of registers • Serial In-Serial Out •  Serial In-Parallel 
Out •  Parallel In-Serial Out • Parallel In-Parallel Out •  Universal shift 
register • Ring counter.
12. Counters  191–214
Introduction • Types of counter • Asynchronous counter • Synchronous counter •  Difference between Asynchronous and Synchronous counter 
• Presettable counter • Design of counters for different modules • Design 
of binary counters of random sequence using flip flop.
13. Semiconductor Memories  215–226
Definitions • Description RAM and ROM • Semiconductor memory 
organization •  Classification •  Expansion of word length and word 
capacity • Difference between Static RAM and Dynamic RAM.
14. D/A Conversion and A/D Conversion 227–250
D/A Converter •  Binary equivalent rate •  Binary Ladder • A/D Converter 
Simultaneous, Counter Type, Continuous A/D converter, successive approximation method, single slope and dual slope A/D converter.